I am participating in the Dominion Dynamics Technical Assessment.
I have selected Problem 1 - Map-based Data Visualization.

The end goal of the project is to have a map of new york city harbor 
that shows the location of all the boats in the harbor in real time.
- The boats will be moving around the map
- The boats will be colored based on their weight
- The boats will be labeled with their name
- The boats will be clickable and will show a popup with a detail view
    - That detail view will have a closer look option that deploys a simulated drone
    that will then fly on the map.

Software Engineer Technical Assessment
Design & Assessment Philosophy
Dominion Dynamics presents several technical challenges, and we request that you select a single problem
scenario for delivery. We encourage you to expand upon the minimum assessment criteria to showcase your
unique focus, interests, and capabilities. Each assessment requires full-stack code delivery (front-end and
back-end, with supporting services and helpers). We favor candidates with a familiarity with React and
Python/Django, but encourage you to use the tools and languages with which you can best demonstrate your
capabilities.
After your submission, we will review it and discuss your process, code quality, and delivery results with you.
Our evaluation is intentionally open-ended. Successful candidates will demonstrate:
• An ability to conceive and design end-to-end systems, not just complete tactical tasks.
• Clarity of thinking and a clear, concise written explanation of their approach, tradeoffs, and architecture.
• Curiosity and self-direction.
• Practical software engineering judgment: maintainability, modularity, and data flow.
Assessment Deliverables
A successful submission will contain all of the following elements:
+ Working code
+ A repo posted to GitHub
+ A README included in the repository with a written architecture/design explanation.
+ Delivery within 72 hours of downloading the evaluation from the portal.
+ A video demo < 5 mins
Evaluation Criteria
We will evaluate submissions for all of the following:
+ Data Models & Data Structures
+ Quality and clarity of reasoning
+ Architecture and tradeoffs
+ Code structure and readability
+ UX clarity
+ Application performance considerations
+ Ability to communicate technical decision-making
+ Timely delivery
+ Curiosity, creativity, thoughtfulness, and ambition
+ Domain knowledge
During our follow-up conversation, we will assess both the code for creativity and excellence and our
discussion for cultural alignment. Please familiarize yourself with our Company Values. We are interested in
identifying team members with high agency, low ego, and a deep passion for our mission.
Assessment Scenarios:
Problem 1 - Map-based Data Visualization
Display publicly available data on a map interface in real-time with at least one interactive tool or view (i.e,
allow the creation of polygons/zones on the map that interact with the real-time data) and at least one
simulated asset (drone or vehicle movement).
Required:
- Write API queries/subscriptions to ingest a publicly available data source (Aircraft, Public transit, etc.)
- Visualize the objects in real-time on a map
- Objects interact with the zones (eg, an object turns red and the application sends an alert when it enters a
zone)
- Visualize the historical path/route of an object when it is clicked
- Provide a detailed panel for an object when it is clicked
----------
Problem 2 - Object Detection and Analysis
Create an application that ingests media streams of at least two types and outputs a history of objects/event
detections that occurred within them. Sensor or data fusion between the two sources is ideal. Create
inferences and analyses from the model output that users can engage with.
Required:
- Use a computer vision model that detects objects/events in a live stream or video
- Keep a record of objects/events detected over time
- Take snapshots of the stream/video when certain events occur
- Trigger alerts when detections occur
----------
Problem 3 - LLM-based User Interface
Create a map-based, full-stack application that allows users to create, place, view, and filter entities using
voice or typed commands (“show me assets in the current zoom window”, “show me weather overlays for the
current zoom window”, “show active flights in the zoom window”, “show me the historic location of this
asset”, “place a marker at x location).
Required:
- Ambiguity handling
- Audit, historic event log
- Serialized actions - a single request performs multiple actions (i.e., adjusts frame, filters and isolates
the asset, opens details).
If you have any questions about the assessment details, please send a single email to
ashleybradford@ddc2.com. To ensure fairness across applications, we will respond to only one email per
application.
The results of your evaluation will neither be helped nor hindered by a request for clarification.
Good Luck!